Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to go ahead and make the gallery clickable.
All right, so we are going to go ahead inside the Abdel-Aziz file and I'm going to go ahead and I'm
going to create a constant where I just go ahead and grab the current image class that we have created.
This class is only provided to the image that is in the center.
That is the preview image.
Right.
So let's go ahead and describe that class query selector and we are going to put in a dot and we are
going to say current IMG.
All right.
So we have successfully selected this class.
And the next thing that I want to do is I want to grab all of the images at the same time.
And I want to be able to store it inside a a an array, which which actually is a node list, but it
looks like an array, so it behaves like an array.
So I'm going to say const images, I'm just going to call it images and we're going to document that
query selector all.
So I'm going to grab and I'm going to say all Dasch images.
And then from there I'm just going to grab the images.
So the first one is a class selector and the second one is an element selector because inside the query
selector quotes, we can do any valid Cyesis selector.
That's the good part of this query selector.
So I'm going to go ahead, I'm going to grab all of the images and I'm going to do a for each loop on
them.
All right.
And each time the loop runs, I want to run a function and that function is going to have an image as
a parameter.
Right.
Which is also the loop variable.
And we are going to grab our image and we are going to add eventless here because we could do this or
we could grab all of our 10 images individually and we could add an event listener to them individually
or separately.
But this way it is like a much better way.
And that's why we don't have to repeat ourselves ten times, like nine unnecessary times.
So what is the event that we're listening for?
It is going to be a click and when the click happens, we want to capture the event object.
So let's go ahead and check something out.
What I'm going to do is I'm just going to go ahead and cancel log E, right.
We have done cancel log E a lot and we know what this is going to give us.
But still, I just want to do it again.
So if I just go ahead and click on this, we are going to get a mouse event.
So if I bring this up and if I click here, if we come to Target, I'm looking for the source because
whenever we click on any of these images, we're basically switching the source.
So let's go down.
Let's see where the source is.
Uh huh.
Oh, it's it's not here, but I think it is this one, this is what we are looking, looking for.
So where is it?
It is this current source, this is the source.
We are basically looking for this image slash three.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead to our code and I'm going to say Dot.
The target.
Target, dot, sirc, save it, and if I click on this, we get the source for that image where that
image is located.
All right.
So we get the source.
If I click on this and if I expand this week, we can see that we are inside our images folder and we
have clicked on the image number four.
So we have successfully selected our images.
Now, what I want to do is I'm just going to go ahead and grab this, either target the source and I'm
going to remove this and I'm going to say current damage that source.
So the source of the current image is going to be fed by this eat target, that source.
So whichever picture or image it is that the user has clicked on, this is going to grab the source
of that image and this equal sign is going to provide it to this current source.
So only with this line if I just save it and if I come here and close this.
So if I click, we can see that this is probably working because we were just switching of the source
for the image.
But there is one more thing remaining and that is that smooth behavior that we have.
So I'm just going to say current image dot classless.
So now I'm going to go ahead and add that class.
And the classes, an inmate dash, I save it.
Come here.
So if I added, we can see that it had had like a unappeased effect, but if I click on the other ones,
none of them have, because that class is added to the first image, the that the user has clicked on.
So that is not how this gallery works.
We want that class to be added to that image that the user has clicked on.
But also we want we want to remove that class when the user clicks on another image and we want to add
it to that image, to it, to the second image.
So what I'm going to do is we are going to create a set time out.
Function, all right, and I'm going to say function in here, right, and what is this function going
to do?
This function is just going to go ahead and after 400 and after 400 milliseconds, it is going to remove
that class from whichever image it is that has that class.
So when the class is added, we are going to remove that class after point four seconds, like after
less than half a second.
So immediately it means like we are going to remove it immediately from that image so we can add it
to another image.
So current image that classless does not remove.
It is an inmate, Dush IMGs, so I'm going to go over this line one more time.
We have added that the current the animated images class to whichever.
Imageries that has been cloaked, but in order to switch this class between between all of the images,
what I what I have to do is I have to be able to remove it from that same image as well, remove that
clause.
So I don't want to remove it immediately.
Like, if I don't provide it inside this Satima function, this line is going to run immediately.
It means like it means like this.
So the current the animate images class is added and is removed almost at the same time.
That's not what we want.
We want there to be some gap.
And that gap is point four seconds.
So we are the images.
This animated is class and after point four seconds, we remove it.
So that gap is going to give us that smooth behavior.
So if I click on this, we can see the classes because this has been almost three, four seconds.
The class has already been removed, so removed, removed, removed, because at this point, four seconds
it is removed like almost immediately, but not at the same time as the class is added.
We don't want to add and remove classes at the same time.
We want there to be some gap.
And in case you're wondering where this 400 comes from, just said it to whatever the animation time
is, if you want to end up with a smooth experience, otherwise you're going to see a jump kind of opacity
change.
All right.
So that's it for this project and for this chapter.
See you guys in the next one.